\documentclass{article}

\begin{document}

\section{Unreliable Nodes}

Given an undirected graph $G = (V,E)$,  where some nodes are non-reliable (in
$N$) and some are reliable (in $R$), and two reliable nodes $s$ and $t$, find
the minimum number of edges + non-reliable nodes to remove to disconnect $s$
and $t$:

\subsection{Solution}

First, define a flow network $G'$. For each undirected edge in $G$, create two
directed edges in $G'$, one for each direction.

Once this is done, modify $G'$ such that every node $n$ in $N$ becomes two nodes,
here called $n_a$ and $n_b$. Create an edge $(n_a,n_b)$. Redirect all of the
incoming edges of $n$ to $n_a$ and create edges for all of the outgoing edges
of $n$ which go from $n_b$ to the destination of the corresponding edge.

Every edge in $G$ should receive a capacity of 1 unit.

The purpose of this graph modification is to recast the problem as a
minimum cut problem. For every edge $v_a \to v_b$ which is cut, it represents
removing the vertex $v$ in $N$. For every other edge which is cut, it
represents simply removing the edge in $E$. Since all edge weights are 1,
removing an edge counts the same as removing a non-reliable vertex. The
algorithm will not be able to "remove" reliable edges because they are
represented as a single vertex in $G'$.

To finish, run a max-flow algorithm on $G'$. This will yield
the same result as the value of the minimum flow due to the maxflow-mincut
theorem.

\subsection{Time Complexity}

Graph creation: Every non-reliable node will be traversed once, and each edge
converted into two exactly once and redirected at most once, so the graph
generation time is $O(|V| + |E|)$.

Graph size: The new graph will have $O(|V|)$ vertices because each vertex is
turned into at most 2 vertices. The graph will have $O(|N|+|E|)$ edges because
each edge is turned into 2 edges, and then $|N|$ edges added.

Graph algorithm: Maximum flows can be computed in $O(VE)$ time. For our flow
network, this translates to $O(|V|(|N|+|E|))$ time.

\end{document}
